{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2577
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red109\green109\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Ratnamati or Lodr\'f6 Rinchen (in Tibetan) is a bodhisattva emanation of the Dharmakaya Buddha Vajradhara. Together with the Bodhisattva Sukhanatha, (an emanation of Vajrapani), he is responsible for bringing the Mahamudra teachings into our human world. They transmitted the teachings of Mahamudra to the Indian Mahasiddha 
\f1\b Saraha
\f0\b0 , who in turn passed them on to his human disciples. It passed from him to Nagarjuna, Savaripa and then to Maitripa. This is one of the two Mahamudra lineages which Marpa Lotsawa received in India and brought back to Tibet.\
\
Bild auch: \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.druponrinpoche.org/en/lineage/kagyu-lineage/ratnamati/"}}{\fldrslt https://www.druponrinpoche.org/en/lineage/kagyu-lineage/ratnamati/}}\
\
Welcher Ratnamati ist gemeint?\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://tibetanbuddhistencyclopedia.com/en/index.php/Ratnamati"}}{\fldrslt http://tibetanbuddhistencyclopedia.com/en/index.php/Ratnamati}}\
\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth600\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7200\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl408\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Bodhisattva Ratnamati (Lodro Rinchen) is seen, in some scriptures, as being a direct emanation of the Buddha. His companion, Sukhanatha, is thought of as an emanation of bodhisattva Vajrapani, guardian of tantric Buddhism. Other scriptures consider the former more as an emanation of Manjughosa and the latter as an emanation of Avalokitesvara. Whichever the case, Ratnamati and Sukhanatha were instrumental in bringing the teachings of mahamudra to our world. They are most famous as the sources of Saraha's enlightened understanding. Ratnamati is considered more as a celestial being who inspired Saraha than as a flesh-and- blood human. This is why the bodhisattva is depicted born from a lotus. As his nature was only really known within the pure sphere of Saraha's meditation, we have little historical or textual information concerning Ratnamati.
\f1\b  This does not belittle the enormous respect felt for him as the link between the primordial Buddha Vajradhara and Saraha, making him first in the lineage of mahamudra teachings as they were handed down though the Kagyu transmission.\
\
https://www.palpung.org/english/mahamudra/refugetreemaster/default.asp?thepagename=02_lodro_rinchen\cell \lastrow\row
}