{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2577
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset134 STSongti-SC-Regular;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red109\green109\blue109;\red0\green0\blue233;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;
}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Image from: Thangkha from Palpung Sherabling.\
Please, when using any picture from this website, give source as - http://www.palpung.org.\
\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth600\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7200\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl408\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Saraha is one of the 84 mahasiddhas in India. There is no certainty as to either the time or place of Saraha's birth and life. Normally he was thought to be appeared in 8th century, but various accounts place him in periods centuries apart. \
\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The emanation of a great bodhisattva, he was born a Brahmin and grew up very erudite. He quickly became a highly-accomplished Buddhist master. He received many tantras from King Visukalpa, who had himself learnt them from the dakinis of Uddiyana.\
\
According to the scriptures, the historical Buddha Sakyamuni, just before his passing from this world, was requested to impart the most profound core of his instruction. He traveled to Vidarbha, in the South of India, and transmitted it to an assembly of bodhisattvas. He prophesied that these teachings would later be spread properly in India by five great beings: 
\f1\b Manjughosa, Avalokitesvara, Saraha, Nagarjuna and Savari. 
\f0\b0 Some centuries later, the first two emanated as masters Ratnamati and Sukhanatha, respectively. Saraha received these mahamudra teachings from them and in turn transmitted them to his great disciples Nagarjuna and Savari.\
\
Saraha was also a past incarnation of the Gyalwa Karmapas.\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.palpung.org/english/mahamudra/refugetreemaster/default.asp?thepagename=03_saraha"}}{\fldrslt https://www.palpung.org/english/mahamudra/refugetreemaster/default.asp?thepagename=03_saraha}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Saraha was the guru of Nagarjuna. This places him before Nagarjuna and not in the 8th century. 
\f1\b Saraha
\f0\b0 , 
\f1\b Sarahapa
\f0\b0 , 
\f1\b Sarahap\uc0\u257 da
\f0\b0  (or, in the Tibetan language 
\f2 \uc0\u3928 \u3921 \u3936 \u3851 \u3926 \u3942 \u4003 \u3956 \u3923 \u3851 
\f0 , [dan\'fcn], Wyl. mda' bsnun 
\f1\b The Archer
\f0\b0 ), (
\f3\i circa
\f0\i0  8th century CE) was known as the first {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sahaja"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 sahajiya}} and one of the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mahasiddha"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Mahasiddhas}}. The name 
\f3\i Saraha
\f0\i0  means "the one who has shot the arrow.".{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saraha#cite_note-1"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs20 \cf4 \super \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 [1]}} According to one, scholar, "This is an explicit reference to an incident in many versions of his biography when he studied with a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dakini"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 dakini}} disguised as a low-caste arrow smith. Metaphorically, it refers to one who has shot the arrow of non duality into the heart of duality."{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saraha#cite_note-2"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs20 \cf4 \super \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 [2]}} \
Saraha is considered to be one of the founders of Buddhist {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vajrayana"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Vajrayana}}, and particularly of the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mahamudra"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Mahamudra}} tradition. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Saraha was originally known as 
\f1\b R\uc0\u257 hula
\f0\b0  or 
\f1\b R\uc0\u257 hulbhadra
\f0\b0  and was born in Roli, a region of the city-state of Rajni in eastern India, into a Shakya family and studied at the Buddhist monastic university {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nalanda"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Nalanda}}.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saraha#cite_note-3"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs20 \cf4 \super \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 [3]}} According to Sankrityayan and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Dvijram_Yadav&action=edit&redlink=1"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Dvijram Yadav}}, Saraha was born in Raggyee village of ancient {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bhagalpur"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Bhagalpur}}, the then Capital of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anga_Desh"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Anga Desh}}.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saraha#cite_note-4"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs20 \cf4 \super \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 [4]}}
\fs20 \cf4 \super \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 \
\
\

\fs24 \cf2 \nosupersub \ulnone \strokec2 Saraha is known for being a wandering {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yogi"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 yogi}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avadhuta"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 avadhuta}} engaging in behaviors that overturned the social norms of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caste"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 caste}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_class"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 social class}}, and the oppressive normative {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gender_role"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 gender roles}} and hierarchies of the time. Two of Saraha's important teachers and consorts were women who were technically lower than him from the standpoint of caste, class, and gender. Yet, each of these nameless women met Saraha as an equal on the path of spiritual practice and each of them had the realization that led Saraha further in his own spiritual development. \
\
Saraha is normally shown seated and holding an arrow (Skt. \uc0\u347 aru). It is from a mature nameless woman, often called the Arrow Smith Dakini or the Arrow Making Dakini, who was Saraha's teacher and consort, that the typical iconography of Saraha holding an arrow emerges. Some versions of their meeting say that Saraha saw the Arrow Making Dakini in a vision and thus was wandering here and there, searching her out. Some say they met at a crossroads,{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saraha#cite_note-5"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs20 \cf4 \super \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 [5]}} while other versions say that it was in a busy marketplace where she was selling her arrows\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f4 \cf2 <$Scr_H::3>
\f1\b\fs28 The Radish Curry Dakini\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f4\b0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_H::3>
\f0 The second nameless woman who was Saraha's teacher and consort is often called the Radish Curry Girl or the Radish Curry {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dakini"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Dakini}}. Saraha met her when she was just 15 years old and it is likely she had been working as a servant. The story that provides this accomplished dakini with the epithet Radish Curry Girl also has several versions. One of the more well-known ones states that Saraha asked this young woman to make him a radish curry one day. While she was doing this, Saraha fell into meditation. His meditative absorption was so complete that he remained in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samadhi"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 samadhi}} for twelve years. \
When he emerged from mediation, he asked the young woman if he could have some of the radish curry twelve long years later. Her direct replies to him are the teachings. She said: "You sit in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samadhi"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 samadhi}} for twelve years and the first thing you ask for is radish curry?"{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saraha#cite_note-11"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs20 \cf4 \super \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 [11]}} \
Saraha noted her wisdom and realized his own faults in meditative practice. He decided that the only way for him to make any progress on the spiritual path would be to move into an isolated mountain location, away from all distractions. \
Again, the Radish Curry Dakini offered pith instructions to Saraha: "If you awaken from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samadhi"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 samadhi}} with an undiminished desire for radish curry, what do you think the isolation of the mountains will do for you? The purest solitude," she counseled, "is one that allows you to escape from the preconceptions and prejudices, from the labels and concepts of a narrow, inflexible mind."{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saraha#cite_note-12"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs20 \cf4 \super \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 [12]}} \
Saraha was wise enough to listen carefully to the wisdom of this dakini in front of him, realizing that she was indeed not just his consort but also his teacher. From that moment forward, his meditative practices changed and he eventually attained the supreme realization of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mahamudra"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 mahamudra}}. At the time of his death, both Saraha and his consort ascended to Dakini Pure Lands.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saraha#cite_note-13"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs20 \cf4 \super \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 [13]}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf4 \super \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 \

\fs24 \cf2 \nosupersub \ulnone \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Credit: British Museum\
}