{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2577
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Denma Drubchen was born in the Denma area of Derge, in eastern Tibet. When he was five, upon hearing only the name \'93Karmapa,\'94 he showed great devotion. A year later, he met the Seventh Karmapa, who bestowed upon him the name Tashi Paljor. He studied in Denma with the scholar Sangye Pal. At sixteen, Tashi Paljor decided to follow the Karmapa, and for the next seven years he studied with the Karmapa and received the full transmission of the Kagyu lineage. Afterwards, under the guidance of the Karmapa, he went to the mountains of Kham and Central Tibet to practice, following the example of Milarepa\'92s life. A
\f1\b fter practicing twenty years in solitary retreat, he attained full realisation, and became known as the first Sangye Nyenpa Rinpoche.\

\f0\b0 He became the principal teacher of, and passed on the full lineage transmissions to, the Eighth Karmapa, Miky\'f6 Dorje.\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://kagyuoffice.org/kagyu-lineage/the-golden-rosary/tashi-paljor/"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs30 https://kagyuoffice.org/kagyu-lineage/the-golden-rosary/tashi-paljor/}}
\fs30 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf2 Having received the full transmission, the Karmapa instructed him to practice at Gampo Nenang for three years, at Tsurphu for two years, at Palpung for two years, and in Thanglha Mountains in North-East Tibet for one year. Tashi Paljor fulfilled his Guru\'92s wishes and is said to have been solely nourished by his control over his subtle body, through his practice of bar lung, for the entire eight years. He then spent another five years meditating in seclusion on the 
\f1\b Tsenmodo Island in Namtso
\f0\b0 , the largest lake in North-East Tibet. This was the same place that his Lama, Bengar Jampal Zangpo, had meditated for eighteen years, before composing the 
\f1\b Dorje Chang Thungma
\f0\b0 .\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 In this way, Tashi Paljor followed the example of Jetsun Milarepa and Bengar Jampal Zangpo and practiced meditation uninterruptedly from the age of twenty-three to forty-three. After twenty years in solitary retreat, he attained full realisation and became known as the first Sangye Nyenpa Rinpoche.\
He then returned to his homeland, Denma. One day he was staying on the fourth floor of a house when a severe earthquake occurred, destroying every building in the area, killing and burying many people under the rubble. Tashi Paljor however was witnessed miraculously flying up into the air, thus remaining unharmed. It is through this that he became known as Drubchen Tashi Paljor, the great Mahasiddha Tashi Paljor.\
It was prophesised by renowned Lamas and Dakinis that he would establish a great Dharma Palace in his native homeland, and accordingly, Tashi Paljor laid the foundation for 
\f2\i Changchub Ch\'f6khor Ling Monastery
\f0\i0  at Denkhog in the Land of Denma.\
His Holiness the Eighth Gyalwa Karmapa, Miky\'f6 Dorje, was instructed in a vision by Mahakala to take Mahasiddha Tashi Paljor as his root Lama. As such, Sangye Nyenpa transmitted the complete Karma Kagyu empowerments and profound instructions to Miky\'f6 Dorje.\
\
https://www.druponrinpoche.org/en/lineage/kagyu-lineage/tashi-paljor-1st-sangye-nyenpa/\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs30 \cf2 \
}