{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2577
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;\f4\fnil\fcharset134 STSongti-SC-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Bild\
05_shawaripa:\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.palpung.org/english/mahamudra/refugetreemaster/default.asp?thepagename=05_shawaripa"}}{\fldrslt https://www.palpung.org/english/mahamudra/refugetreemaster/default.asp?thepagename=05_shawaripa}}\
\
Shawaripa: \
http://www.bscases.co.za/refugetree/shawaripa.htm\
\
____\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Mahasiddha Savari (Shawaripa) is one of the 84 mahasiddhas in India. He was guided to liberation by Nagarjuna, from whom he received the complete teachings of mahamudra. According to certain traditions, Savari later received this same quintessential dharma directly from the bodhisattvas Ratnamati and Sukhanatha, and also from Saraha, at the mountain retreat of Sriparvata (i.e. Nagarjunakonda in South India). Savari means "hill-person" and the few biographical fragments we have of Savari's life describe him sometimes as a hunter and sometimes as a dancer.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl408\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The hunter Savari is said to have met bodhisattva Avalokitesvara, who wagered his boast of being able to kill 100 animals with one arrow against a promise from Savari to abstain from hunting for one month. Avalokitesvara killed the 100 animals (which were in fact his emanations) with a single shot. After the month of not killing, Savari and his wife were shown their terrible future rebirth, created by all they had killed. Shocked to see their own future suffering in hell-realms, they became devoted tantric Buddhists.\
The Mahasiddha and his wife became quickly enlightened through the instructions of Saraha, the Bodhisattvas Ratnamati and Sukhanata, and the guidance of Nagarjuna. He practiced in many caves in India, and received visions of deities such as the Six-arm Mahakala. The practice of Vajrayogini was a major contribution of Shawaripa towards the lineage.\
\
https://www.palpung.org/english/mahamudra/refugetreemaster/default.asp?thepagename=05_shawaripa\
_____\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Shavaripa
\f1\b0  (Skt. 
\f3\i \uc0\u346 \u257 varipa
\f1\i0 ; Tib. 
\f4 \uc0\u3940 \u3851 \u3926 \u3851 \u3938 \u3954 \u3851 \u3924 \u3851 
\f1  or 
\f4 \uc0\u3938 \u3954 \u3851 \u3905 \u4018 \u3964 \u3921 \u3851 \u3921 \u3926 \u3908 \u3851 \u3925 \u4017 \u3956 \u3906 
\f1 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.rigpawiki.org/index.php?title=Wyl."}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Wyl.}} 
\f3\i sha ba ri pa
\f1\i0  or 
\f3\i ri khrod dbang phyug
\f1\i0 ), the 'Hunter' \'97 one of the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.rigpawiki.org/index.php?title=Eighty-four_mahasiddhas"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 eighty-four mahasiddhas}} of India. Shavaripa was a hunter who turned to the Buddhist path and renounced his livelihood after an encounter with the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.rigpawiki.org/index.php?title=Bodhisattva"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 bodhisattva}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.rigpawiki.org/index.php?title=Avalokiteshvara"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Avalokiteshvara}}. 
\f2\b He later became a disciple of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.rigpawiki.org/index.php?title=Nagarjuna"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Nagarjuna}} and a teacher of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.rigpawiki.org/index.php?title=Maitripa"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Maitripa}}.
\f1\b0  Shavaripa is a key figure in the transmission of the early {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.rigpawiki.org/index.php?title=Mahamudra"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Mahamudra}} lineage of teachings in India, and counted among the 'Indian Patriarchs' of the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.rigpawiki.org/index.php?title=Kagy%C3%BC"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 Kagy\'fc}} lineage. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.rigpawiki.org/index.php?title=Shavaripa"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 https://www.rigpawiki.org/index.php?title=Shavaripa}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Shavaripa: The Hunter
\f1\b0 \
\
On the rugged slopes of Vikrama Peak Mountain there lived a man named Shavaripa. A hunter by occupation, Shavaripa's very survival relied on taking the lives of forest animals. Although he was good man, his ceaseless killing had caused him to accumulate a great deal of bad karma.\
\
Witnessing Shavaripa's situation and feeling pity, the Buddha of Compassion, Avalokiteshvara, took human form and descended to the mountains. The Bodhisattva disguised himself as another hunter and boasted to Shavaripa that he could shoot one hundred deer with a single arrow. Naturally, Shavaripa did not believe him and challenged him to try. The next day, the two went to a clearing where they found a herd of deer that Avalokiteshvara had conjured forth with his magical powers. To Shavaripa's surprise, the Bodhisattva killed exactly one hundred deer with only one arrow shot as he had claimed he would. Awestruck, Shavaripa begged the Bodhisattva to teach him this most impressive hunting skill. The Bodhisattva responded that he would, but that there would be a condition. The condition was that Shavaripa and his wife had to refrain from eating meat for an entire month. The couple eagerly agreed. \
\
After one week the Bodhisattva returned and happily saw that the couple was still adhering to the condition, and decided it was appropriate to give Shavaripa and his wife further instruction. The Bodhisattva explained that for the rest of the month they were to contemplate loving kindness towards all living things. When the month had past, Avalokiteshvara returned and immediately drew a mandala, a sacred diagram, on the ground in front of the couple. \
\
When the couple looked upon it, they saw themselves at its center, writhing and burning in hell. The Bodhisattva then began to explain basic Buddhist principles such as the effects of virtuous and unvirtuous actions, and how the long term effect of taking life is birth in a human hell. He explained to the couple that by renouncing their wicked acts they could avoid ending up in such a place. He then gave the hunter a meditation practice. \
\
Shavaripa practiced meditation in the mountains for twelve years until he attained supreme realization. He then spent the rest of his life as a teacher in his home country, instructing countless students on the path to liberation.\
\
https://www.himalayanart.org/search/set.cfm?setID=1185}